Now that you’ve sorted your data, you’re ready to create a custom data table to help you answer each of your questions. Your table will clearly summarize the data. Plus, if you want to share your results, your table will be well-organized and easy to understand.

**Count the number of applications received each month**

First, use spreadsheet functions to help you find the total number of applications received in each month.

1. To start, select the **Add sheet** icon (the plus sign) in the menu bar to add a new sheet to your spreadsheet. You’ll create your data table in this sheet

2. Rename the new sheet. Select the sheet tab and choose **Rename** on the menu. Then, enter **summary data**.

3. Next, add column headers to your table. In cell A1 of your **summary data** sheet, enter **Month**. In cell B1, enter **Applications**.

4. Underneath the **Month** label in cell A2, enter **January**. Press **Enter**.

5. Now, use autofill to add the rest of the months of the year. Select cell A2 again. The fill handle will appear in the cell. Select on the fill handle and drag it down to cell A13 to autofill all the months of the year.

6. Next, convert the number values in the **Date** column in the **raw data** sheet into text. Select the **raw data** tab to return to the **raw data** sheet. In cell G1, enter **Month**.

7. The TEXT function converts a number into text according to a specified format. In this case, list them in which an application was received. Use the format “mmmm” for the full name of the month. In cell G2, enter the following code (do not copy+paste):

=TEXT(B2,"mmmm")

The first entry B2 refers to the cell you want to convert. The second entry ("mmmm") refers to the specific format you want to use. Press **Enter**.

(**Note:** It is _very important_ that you manually enter all formulas and functions. They should not be copied and pasted from the activity, as this will result in an error message.)

8. If a box pops up with the option to autofill the column, select the check mark or enter **Ctrl + Enter** (Windows) or **Cmd + Return** (Mac). If this box does not pop up, select cell G2. Then, **double-click** on the fill handle to copy the function down the column. This will populate all the cells in the column with the corresponding month.

9. Now you're ready to total the applications by month. You could do this manually, by filtering the data and counting the number of entries for each month, but this would take a long time and be prone to errors. Instead, use the COUNTIF function.

10. The COUNTIF function quickly counts how many items in a range of cells meet a given criterion. First, select the **summary data** tab to return to your **summary data** sheet. Then, in cell B2, enter =COUNTIF('raw data'!G:G,A2). The first entry 'raw data'!G:G refers to the range where you are counting the data. The range is located on your **raw data** sheet 'raw data'! and includes all column G G:G entries. This column contains the data for months. The second entry A2 refers to the criterion you want to count. In this case, it’s “January,” the value in cell A2 of your **summary data** sheet. The function calculates how many times **January** (the criterion) appears in the **Month** column (the range).

11. Press **Enter**. You’ll notice the value 2387 appears in cell B2. This means that 2,387 job applications were submitted in January.

12. Select cell B2. **Double-click** the fill handle to copy the function down through cell B13.

Now your table lists the total number of applications submitted for each month:

|Month|Applications|
|---|---|
|January|2387|
|February|2312|
|March|2536|
|April|2544|
|May|2954|
|June|2990|
|July|3138|
|August|2969|
|September|2865|
|October|2751|
|November|2508|
|December|2642|